What are the best places to see in San Francisco?,"Where to begin! San Francisco is a great place to visit, and it holds new surprises every time you return. If you've never been before, you may enjoy staying someplace central like Union Square. From there you can BART to the Mission district and as far south as SF Airport, or to the Embarcadero and all the way to the East Bay. Your other public transportation options are the cable car (which picks up right at Powell and Market) and the bus. There are several bus lines that can take you all throughout the city from here. Union Square also houses many upscale shops and some very nice restaurants. I recommend lunch at the Rotunda in Nieman Marcus, which affords a view of all of Union Square. You can take the cable car to Fisherman's Wharf from here. Although it is very touristy, it also gives you a glimpse of what the shipping and canning industry used to be like here. You can also check out the very entertaining Amusing America at Pier 45. You have lots of great seafood dining options in this area. The Embarcadero is very much improved in these past few years. It's now a great promenade and hosts a Farmer's Market at the Ferry Building a couple of times a week. Nearby Embarcadero Center is another shopping destination. If you're here in the spring/summer, definitely try to catch a Giants game at SBC Park, which is a world class ball park! If you come in summer, you'll likely run into one of the many street fairs that happen in neighborhoods throughout the city. Lots of good food, interesting crafts, live music and a real taste of San Francisco. There are a lot of terrific museums here. Downtown you'll find the SF MoMA, which is a decent collection in a gorgeous building. Right across the street is Yerba Buena Gardens and the Metreon, where you can catch a movie, play a game of billiards or even go virtual bowling. The DeYoung just reopened in a brand new building. That will put you right in the heart of Golden Gate Park, which has bike paths, gardens, a conservatory of flowers, the Japanese tea garden, man-made lakes, and even a bison paddock. You'll get a great view of the Golden Gate Bridge from the Marina Green and Crissy field, both of which are great for walking, exercising, and just plain people watching! I could go on and on! San Francisco has something to offer everyone, and is worth more than one trip!"