Any tips?,"Preparing your ingredients before you start is a must when doing stir fry.     You quickly fry the ingredients in a large pan over high heat while constantly stirring to preserve its flavor, color and texture and keep the vegetables crisp.     You prepare your meat or chicken. Cut the meat or chicken into thin bite-size slices and marinate to protect it from overcooking. The marinade can be made with a variety of liquids depending on the flavor you are trying to obtain. Typical marinade ingredients include chicken or beef stock, soy sauce, hoisin sauce, chili sauce, corn starch, brown sugar, rice wine or dry sherry. Marinate for a least one hour, longer is better.     Then, prepare your aromatic mixture consisting of finely chopped herbs and spices that will add flavor and aroma to the stir-fry. Typical aromatics include garlic, scallions, red pepper flakes, shallots, and chili peppers to name a few.     Next, prepare your vegetables by cutting them into small pieces and separating according to their cooking times. Slower cooking vegetables like asparagus and green beans will be added before faster cooking vegetables like pea pods and tomatoes.     Here's a sample recipe for Stir fried chicken and broccoli:    Marinade Ingredients:    1/4 cup chicken stock   1/4 cup dry sherry or rice wine   2 tablespoons soy sauce   2 tablespoons Oyster Sauce   1 tablespoon cornstarch   1 teaspoon of sesame oil   3 boneless chicken breasts, sliced into thin strips     Aromatics:    3 cloves garlic, minced   1 tablespoon ginger, minced   1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes   Other Ingredients:    3 tablespoons of oil   1 bunch of broccoli, cut into florets   1 red pepper, julienned   1 large onion, cut into chunks   1/4 cup halved cashew nuts     Start the prep for this recipe combining the marinade ingredients, cutting the chicken breasts into strips and letting that marinate for a while.    Next, cut up your broccoli and onion and julienne the red pepper.     Preheat wok or frying pan over high heat.   Add 2 tablespoons oil and add chicken, reserving marinade. Stir-fry for 3-4 minutes until chicken is no longer pink. Cook in batches if necessary. Remove and set aside.   Add remaining tablespoon of oil and stir-fry the aromatics for 10 seconds or until fragrant.   Add the vegetables and stir-fry 3-4 minutes.   Add the reserved marinade and reserved chicken and cook until sauce thickens, stirring frequently.   Toss with cashews and serve over white rice."