which one is better ? BMW or infinity G35?,"When comparing these two makes it’s important to establish which two models and trim levels would be comparable. For this example I will use the Infiniti G35 Manual and the BMW 330xi (both 2006). First off is the pricing, where Infiniti beats the BMW in any configuration (eg, add-ons etc). From a drivers perspective the engine inside of the Infiniti is a very reliable and steady powerhouse with a slightly lower torque band than the BMW. Then again after driving both cars and driving BMW's for years I have to say now that I favor the BMW Inline 6 which is a pinnacle of automotive engineering. Its been retooled over the years but the engine is one of the most perfect machines that I have ever driven with gear ratios and compression that feel just right. The Infiniti manual tranny can’t really be compared to a BMW, who has honed their 6 speed to a silky smooth or dynamic box. Its true that what you put in is what you get out in a BMW, because you can drive them hard or soft and the overall dynamic I wouldn’t trade for an Infiniti, which has a noticeable difference in feel... its heavier but still a very capable machine. If you are auto sticking I still prefer the BMW Steptronic 6. In terms of comfort the 3 series has made a consistent effort to provide a very organic support to the drivers and passengers with the addition of the premium and sports packages. The Infiniti does have larger and more a more plush feel as well as a much more comprehensible navigation system. The inclusion of the rather complex iDrive system in BMW's has frustrated a lot of drivers including myself (although once you get used to it it does make a lot of sense, just very frustrating to start). The iPod integration in BMW's is still rather sketchy... you cant have that and certain components installed at the same time and ealier versions limited how many playlists and songs the stero system could actually recognize and play. Later versions are somewhat improved but the aftermarket additions by Alpine can be worth it if you are an avid user. In terms of over all feel the Infiniti has made more inroads this year in terms of creature comforts than BMW. I would suggest the addition of the premium package for improved audio quality in both vehicles. Already a nimble machine the addition of the Sport package for the BMW makes it a very satisfying experience for the driving enthusiast. I trust the xDrive system to provide more sure footing in all weather but I haven’t had a chance to test the Infiniti in other than optimal conditions. The Infiniti is a very nice machine overall. Good dynamics and characteristics make it the best bang for the buck but personally I would suggest to splurge and go for the BMW, which, besides its wonderful performance and better care package provided in the Ownership benefits (BMW Maintenance Program), has better standing than the Infiniti."