I need to get a wireless card for my laptop. Are all cards compatible with all laptops? Which one is best?,"Q: Are all cards compatible? A: Not quite. If your laptop is a Mac Powerbook or iBook, you should get a USB wireless network adapter. And regardless if it's a Windows or Mac laptop, it's a good idea to double-check that it doesn't already have wireless capability built-in (most do nowadays). Assuming your laptop runs Windows, doesn't have a built-in wireless adapter, and is a relatively recent model (a Pentium II or newer CPU is a good hint), then just about any wireless card will work and you skip the rest of this explanation. If your laptop is more than 7 or 8 years old, you need to make sure it supports CardBus PCMCIA cards. Many wireless PCMCIA cards use the CardBus interface - it provides higher performance than the standard PCMCIA interface. Unfortunately, CardBus slots look just like a regular PCMCIA slot, so you can't tell if your laptop supports them just by looking. You can, however, easily tell if a wireless PCMCIA card uses CardBus or not. If it has a gold strip on top the end that goes into the PCMCIA slot, then it's a CardBus PCMCIA card. Many manufacturers of wireless PCMCIA cards offer them using both interfaces. Here's an example of a Siemens card (along with pictures that clearly show the difference between a regular PCMCIA card and CardBus card): http://kb.efficient.com/display/1n/articleDirect/index.asp?aid=45947&r=0.1037256 Q: Which one is best? A: It depends on what your wireless network supports. But, in general, there are several good options and at very reasonable prices. WARNING: If you want to buy a wireless card to use at work though, you MUST check with your IT department before buying anything. First, they should really provide a wireless card - you shouldn't have to buy one. Second, businesses often configure their wireless networks to use specific security features, and you want to make sure you buy equipment that will be compatible. OK, assuming you want to use this for wireless connectivity at home, then just about any wireless card that supports 802.11g (aka Wireless-G) will suffice. I say that because most equipment for wireless home networks sold today uses the 802.11g standard. And anything that you buy nowadays will provide more than adequate security and encryption options. Choice of brand matters a lot, though I can't recommend a single one because you really want to get the same brand as the rest of your wireless networking equipment. For instance, if you have a Linksys wireless router at home, then get a Linksys wireless card. Technically, most of the wireless equipment is compatible with each other (I won't get into the gory details of why that's not always true), but if you get equipment from the same brand, then you know it's been tested by the manufacturer to be compatible. And the software you use to setup the various pieces of equipment will be very similar and use the same descriptions for various options - that should make things less confusing. If you're buying the other networking equipment too (e.g. the wireless router), then I recommend Linksys. I've never been disappointed by their products - good performance, reliability, support and at very good prices to boot. And you can find their products in almost any major retail store that carries computer products (like Best Buy). Hope this helps!"