"With the USA having been the 4th country I have lived in, I am curious as to why the media/government wants to keep the general populous so inwardly focused. You find very little mention of things/events around the rest of the world in the main-stream media here. What's your take on this issue?","A large part of the America-centric focus of the American media is as a result of its structure. Let me explain: the American media is more privatized than any other media system in the world. Take the BBC, for example, it is a government-sponsored media outlet (rather than commercially sponsored) and it was conceived as a tool to educate the public. The American media -- first print, then radio, then television -- evolved as a system that is primarily supported by the money advertisers pay broadcasters for ad space. Advertisers are interested in at least two things: 1) the largest audience share (they race to capture the median viewer); and 2) a lack of controversy out of fear that their brand image might suffer in the mind of the public. This is part of the reason why the media pick domestic topics and focus on high-profile domestic personages (less controversy, and more relevant to the daily lives of Americans, so thus, more watched). Another reason has to do with the news cycle of the American media. In many countries, the news is still a half-hour, hour, or couple hours per day. In the U.S. with cable news, the news cycle is now 24-hours. This constant pressure to always be turning out stories gives journalists incentives to make their story production as efficient as possible. In practice, this means developing a set of official contacts that they can rely upon for sound bites that relate to their reporting areas. They build trust with these contacts and can count upon them to respond quickly. With major news bureaus tending to be on the east coast of the U.S., it is easier for journalists to develop ongoing relationships with officials who don't live at great geographic distances (even with the Internet, I'd argue). Also, with the rise in prominence of public relations firm (firms that specialize in creating news-worthy promotional material that frames their organizational or individual clients in a favorable light), information about celebrities and American personages is readily available and pre-processed for journalists to be newsworthy, and thus, such material is exceptionally appealing to journalists who by and large are ALL on a very tight deadline. Some communications researchers in the past have argued that -- with the exception of the elite -- most everyone in all countries would be interested in more gossip, lifestyle, and entertainment news. What stops some countries from providing it is either an authoritarian regime, or perhaps the more benevolent goal of providing an educational service. If you're really interested in this topic, I suggest a couple of interesting books: *The Creation of the Media* by Paul Starr, and *Deciding What's News* by Herbert J. Gans, both of whom are scholars of great repute."