Symptoms of both primary and secondary brain tumors can be divided into three main categories:

Symptoms as consequences of increased intracranial pressure (often first noticed): Large tumors or tumors with extensive swelling (edema) inevitably lead to elevated intracranial pressure which translates clinically into headaches, vomiting (with or without nausea), altered state of consciousness (somnolence, coma), dilation of the pupil on the side of the lesion (anisocoria), papilledema (prominent optic disc at the funduscopic eye examination). However, even small tumors obstructing the passage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can also present such symptoms. Increased intracranial pressure may result in brain herniation (i.e. displacement) of certain parts of the brain, such as the cerebellar tonsils or the temporal uncus, resulting in lethal brainstem compression. In very young children, elevated intracranial pressure may cause an increase in the diameter of the skull and bulging of the fontanelles.
Dysfunction: depending on the tumor location and the damage it may have caused to surrounding brain structures, either through compression or infiltration, any type of focal neurologic symptoms may occur, such as cognitive and behavioral impairment (including impaired judgment, memory loss, lack of recognition, spatial orientation disorders), personality or emotional changes, hemiparesis, hypoesthesia, aphasia, ataxia, visual field impairment, impaired sense of smell, impaired hearing, facial paralysis, double vision, dizziness, but more severe symptoms might occur too, such as paralysis on one side of the body hemiplegia or impairment in swallowing. These symptoms are not specific for brain tumors – they may be caused by a large variety of neurologic conditions (e.g. stroke, traumatic brain injury). What counts, however, is the location of the lesion and the functional systems (e.g. motor, sensory, visual, etc.) it affects. A bilateral temporal visual field defect (bitemporal hemianopia—due to compression of the optic chiasm), often associated with endocrine dysfunction—either hypopituitarism or hyperproduction of pituitary hormones and hyperprolactinemia is suggestive of a pituitary tumor.
Irritation: abnormal fatigue, weariness, absences and tremors, but also epileptic seizures.
A benign brain tumour may be present for some years and be asymptomatic. Others might present ambiguous and intermittent symptoms like headaches and vomiting or weariness and so be mistaken for gastrointestinal disorders. In these cases secondary symptoms need to be looked into.
